---
NEP: 819
Title: Non Fungible Token Burn Standard
Authors: Chloethedev <marmaj.org>; Bianca <info@marmaj.org>; Monish Muralidharan <kalakendradao@gmail.com>; Immanuel John <imjjohn18@gmail.com>;
DiscussionsTo: https://gov.near.org/t/draft-non-fungible-token-burn-standard/28859
Status: Draft
Type: Standard
Created: 13-Sept-2022
---

## Summary
NEP 819 is a standard for burning NFTs. It acts as an extention to NEP 171 and requires NEP 177 & 297.

Currently there is no standard for minting and burning (NEP 171), but there is NEP 297 which handles NFT events (nft_mint, nft_transfer, and nft_burn). NEP 819 extents the core cuntionality of NFT contracts on NEAR Protocol by providing a standard for NFT burning as well as an on_burn helper function for burning "utility NFTS" (NFTs that are meant to burned in exchange for a good or service).

## Motivation
NEAR Ecosystem NFTs are evolving from being unique records with a pointer to metadata into being real world assets that can be interacted with for goods and services. The NFT standards should also evolve to more efficiently support developers as they build their projects.

Having a variety of methods for burning NFTs adds unnecessary complexity (this should be standardized).
Having no standard for burning “utilty NFTs” makes it more difficult to NFT owners across the NEAR ecosystem to keep an efficient record of how they are using their NFTs.

## Rationale and Alternatives
While there are projects that handle burning NFTs at the application layer, which provides useful functionality for real world use cases of NFTs (NFT tickets for example), there is no standard.

Handling non-utility NFT burns at the application layer solves the problem of needing to remove unwanted NFT data from future NEAR Protocol blocks, but does not address the need for a “receipt” when an NFT owner decides to burn their utility NFT.


## Specification
Provides two functions to support NFT burning
1. burn:
- allows an NFT ownser to burn an NFT (assuming the token exists and the owner is actually the token owner)
- saves the metadata (to be used for the event emittion) 
2. utility_burn:
- burns the NFT with same assumtions as the burn function
- derives the token_id for a new reciept NFT from the original burnt token 
- mints a new NFT with the derived token_id and the metadata from the brurnt NFT

## Reference Implementation
https://github.com/Immanuel-john/near-sdk-rs-nft-utility/tree/master/near-contract-standards/src/non_fungible_token/burning

## Security Implications

## Drawbacks
NFT protocols would have to upgrade their contracts to add these burn features. This may cause initial confusion between protocols that apply this standard and those that do not.

## Unresolved Issues
What happens when two NFTs are burned in the same block? Without enermeration and in an async scenario

## Future possibilities
We believe that NEP 819 is the beginning of offering numerous on-chain flows upon burning. In the future, we would hope to extend the standard and build upon it to allow for more possibilities, such as:

- NFT evolution (wrap NFT in contract with counter. As counter > evolution value, utility_nft_burn)
- NFT receipts (ticketing, coupons, memberships)
- More efficient on-chain gaming with the ability for collaborative action

## References
Nomicon NFT standards: https://nomicon.io/Standards/Tokens/NonFungibleToken/


## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).
